Guide to the data protection feeThere are three different tiers of fee and controllers are expected to pay between ¡ê52 and ¡ê3,763. The fees are set by Parliament to reflect what it believes is appropriate based on the risks posed by the processing of personal data by controllers.The tier you fall into depends on:how many members of staff you have;your annual turnover;whether you are a public authority;whether you are a charity; orwhether you are a small occupational pension scheme.Not all controllers must pay a fee. Many can rely on an exemption.Tier 1  micro organisationsYou have a maximum turnover of ¡ê632,000 for your financial year or no more than 10 members of staff. The fee for tier 1 is ¡ê52.Tier 2  small and medium organisationsYou have a maximum turnover of ¡ê36 million for your financial year or no more than 250 members of staff. The fee for tier 2 is ¡ê78.Tier 3  large organisationsIf you do not meet the criteria for tier 1 or tier 2, you have to pay the tier 3 fee of ¡ê3,763. We regard all controllers as eligible to pay a fee in tier 3 unless and until they tell us otherwise.Working out your data protection feeCalculating members of staffFor the purpose of working out the fee, ¡®members of staff¡¯ is defined broadly to include all your employees, workers, office holders and partners. Your number of members of staff is the average number working for you during your financial year. Each part-time staff member is counted as one member of staff.So you should:work out, for each completed month of your financial year, the total number who were members of staff in that month;add together the monthly totals; anddivide it by the number of months in your financial year.It doesn¡¯t matter if your members of staff are based in the UK, overseas or a mixture of both. They all count.ExceptionsThe 2018 Regulations make certain exceptions for some controllers.Public authorities should categorise themselves according to staff numbers only. They do not need to take turnover into account.Charities that are not otherwise subject to an exemption will only be liable to pay the tier 1 fee, regardless of size or turnover. Small occupational pension schemes that are not otherwise subject to an exemption will only be liable to pay the tier 1 fee, regardless of size or turnover.We have published an online fee self-assessment to help you work out which fee applies to you.Direct debit discountIf you choose to pay your fee by direct debit, you will receive an automatic discount of ¡ê5 at the point of payment.ExemptionsGenerally speaking, you have to pay a fee if you are processing personal data as a controller. But there are some exemptions. You don¡¯t need to pay a fee if you are processing personal data only for one (or more) of the following purposes: * Staff administration.* Advertising, marketing and public relations.* Accounts and records.* Not-for-profit purposes.* Personal, family or household affairs.* Maintaining a public register.* Judicial functions.* Processing personal information without an automated system such as a computer.* Since 1 April 2019, members of the House of Lords, elected representatives and prospective representatives are also exempt.By working through our registration self-assessment, you will be able to tell whether you need to pay the data protection fee. But even if you are exempt from paying a fee, you still need to comply with your other data protection obligations.Paying the data protection feeIf you are currently registeredIf you are already registered, we will decide what tier you are in based on the information we have and you should tell us if you think we have got it wrong. You can email us, or we can take the details over the telephone. Please have your security number and registration reference ready.If your registration has recently expiredIf you aren¡¯t currently registered because your registration has recently expired, we will regard you as eligible to pay a fee in tier 3 unless and until you tell us otherwise. You will need to give us certain information such as the fee tier you think you fall into, so we can advise what data protection fee you are required to pay.If you are paying for the first timeYou will need to give us certain information such as the name of your organisation, the best way to contact you and the fee tier you think you fall into. The quickest way to do this is online. You can call us on 0303 123 1113 for help starting the process, or at any point along the way.There are a number of ways you can pay:* Direct debit - The easiest way to pay. If you pay by direct debit, you will receive a ¡ê5 discount. If you are not already registered, we¡¯ll send you direct debit details when you contact us to register. If you are already registered, we¡¯ll send them with your renewal reminder.* Credit or debit card - To pay by credit or debit card, you will need your registration reference and order reference. If you are not already registered, we will send you these when you contact us to pay the fee. If you are already registered, we¡¯ll send it with your renewal reminder. You can make your payment online.* Cheque - Please make your cheque payable to the ¡®Information Commissioner¡¯s Office¡¯, and write your application reference or registration reference on the back. Again we will send you these when you contact us to register or when we send out your renewal reminder.Information we will collect and publishWhen paying the data protection fee, you will need to tell us the following:* The name and address of the controller. (For registered companies this should be the address of its registered office; for any other person carrying on a business, this should be that person¡¯s principal place of business in the UK. If you use a domestic address in the course of your business and you don't want this to be included on the register of fee payers, please call our helpline on 0303 123 1113)* The number of members of staff you have.* The turnover for your financial year.* Any other trading names you have.We will also ask for the names and contact details of the following people:The person completing the registration process.* A relevant person in your organisation (or another relevant representative) whom we can contact about our regulatory purposes (for example, renewing the data protection fee when it is due or sending information to support compliance), if this is different from the above.* Your Data Protection Officer (DPO), if you must have one under the GDPR ? again if this is different from the above.* We will publish details of all controllers who pay the data protection fee on the register of fee payers. However, we won¡¯t publish all the information you give us.The information we publish on the register will be limited to the following:* The name and address of the controller, but not details about individuals nominated as contact points for us. (If you use a domestic address in the course of your business and you don¡¯t want this to be included on the register of fee payers, please call our helpline on 0303 123 1113)* The registration reference we give you.* The level of fee you have paid (that is tier 1, tier 2 or tier 3).* The date you paid the fee and when it is due to expire.* Any other trading names you have.* Contact details for your Data Protection Officer (DPO), if you have told us you have one.* The name of your Data Protection Officer (DPO), if you have told us you have one and if they consent to this. (You will be asked to tick an ¡®opt in¡¯ box if they do consent.)If a Data Protection Officer (DPO) opts out of having their name published on the register of fee payers and we are asked to release it under the Freedom of Information Act 2000, we will have to consider whether we can disclose it. We won¡¯t routinely provide this information, but may have to disclose it if our position is challenged in law and we are ordered to do so.PenaltiesYou are breaking the law if, as a controller, you process personal data, or are responsible for the processing of personal data, for any of the non-exempt purposes and you have either:* not paid a fee, or* not paid the correct fee.The maximum penalty is a ¡ê4,350 fine.What is the data protection fee for?We use the data protection fee to fund our data protection work. We do not keep any money we receive in fines, but pass it directly to the Government.Do I have to pay a fee?If you are a controller and the exemptions don¡¯t apply to you, you will have to pay the fee.How do I determine if my business is exempt?Take our registration self-assessment.How much do I have to pay?The fees range from ¡ê52 to ¡ê3,763. The fee depends on the size of your organisation, your turnover and, in some cases, the type of organisation you are. It¡¯s structured like this out of fairness.Take our fee self-assessment to determine what fee your organisation has to pay.Who sets the fee?The fee is set by Parliament and reflects what Parliament feels is appropriate, based on the risks that the processing of personal data presents.How long will I be covered?Your fee covers a 12 month period from the renewal date (not the payment date), but we will not regard you as covered until we receive a payment we can attribute to you.How often do I have to pay the data protection fee?Every 12 months.How will I know my renewal is due?We will contact you before your previous payment expires and your new payment is due.Does the fee include VAT?No. Statutory fees are outside the scope of VAT, so no VAT is charged on it.Do you issue refunds?Only in exceptional circumstances. Please get in touch with us as soon as possible.What happens if I don¡¯t pay my fee?We will send you a reminder explaining when you need to pay. If you don¡¯t pay, or tell us why you are no longer required to pay a fee, we can issue a notice of intent to issue a monetary penalty notice 28 days after expiry. You will have 28 days to pay or make representations. If you do not pay or fail to notify us that you no longer need to pay, you may be issued with a fine of up to ¡ê4,350 (150% of the top tier fee).Charity ? In England and Wales, ¡®charity¡¯ has the meaning given in section 1 of the Charities Act 2011. In Scotland, it means a body entered in the Scottish Charity register maintained under section 3 of the Charity and Trustee Investment (Scotland) Act 2005. In Northern Ireland, it has the meaning given in section 1 of the Charities Act (Northern Ireland) 2008.Controller ? A person, public authority, agency or other body which, alone or jointly with others, determines the purposes and means of the processing of personal data. Only controllers need to pay the data protection fee.Processor ? A person, public authority, agency or other body which processes personal data on behalf of the controller.Data Protection Officer ? Under the GDPR, some organisations need to appoint a Data Protection Officer (DPO) who is responsible for informing them of and advising them about their data protection obligations and monitoring their compliance with them.Data subject ? The identified or identifiable living individual to whom personal data relates.Financial year ? A controller¡¯s financial year regarding a company is determined in accordance with section 390 of the Companies Act 2006; regarding a limited liability partnership is determined in accordance with section 390 of the Companies Act 2006, as applied by regulation 7 of the Limited Liability Partnerships (Accounts and Audit) (Application of Companies Act 2006) Regulations 2008; and regarding any other case, it means the period, covering 12 consecutive months, over which a controller determines income and expenditure.Member of staff ? Any employee, worker (within the meaning given in section 296 of the Trade Union and Labour Relations (Consolidation) Act 1992) office holder or partner.Personal data ? Any information relating to a person (a ¡®data subject¡¯) who can be identified, directly or indirectly, in particular by reference to an identifier such as a name, an identification number, location data, an online identifier or to one or more factors specific to the physical, physiological, genetic, mental, economic, cultural or social identity of that person.Processing ? In relation to personal data, means any operation or set of operations which is performed on personal data or on sets of personal data (whether or not by automated means, such as collection, recording, organisation, structuring, storage, alteration, retrieval, consultation, use, disclosure, dissemination, restriction, erasure or destruction).Public authority ? Means a public authority as defined by the Freedom of Information Act 2000 or a Scottish public authority as defined by the Freedom of Information (Scotland) Act 2002.Small occupational pension scheme ? Has the meaning given in regulation 4 of the Occupational and Personal Pension Schemes (Consultation by Employers and Miscellaneous Amendment) Regulations 2006.Turnover ? Regarding a company, turnover has the meaning given in section 474 of the Companies Act 2006; regarding a limited liability partnership , it is determined in accordance with section 474 of the Companies Act 2006, as applied by regulation 32 of the Limited Liability Partnerships (Accounts and Audit) (Application of Companies Act 2006) Regulations 2008; and regarding any other case, it means the amounts derived by the controller from the provision of goods and services falling within the controller¡¯s ordinary activities, after deduction of trade discounts, value added tax and any other taxes based on the amounts so derived.